Add tutorial for using RBAC with Spaces (#52197)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/security/rbac_tutorial.asciidoc

[[space-rbac-tutorial]]
=== Tutorial:  Use role-based access control to customize Kibana spaces

With role-based access control (RBAC), you can provide users access to data, tools,
and Kibana spaces.  In this tutorial, you will learn how to configure roles
that provide the right users with the right access to the data, tools, and
Kibana spaces.

[float]
==== Scenario

Our user is a web developer working on a bank's
online mortgage service.  The web developer has these 
three requirements:

* Have access to the data for that service 
* Build visualizations and dashboards
* Monitor the performance of the system

You'll provide the web developer with the access and privileges to get the job done.

[float]
==== Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you'll need the following:

> *  **Administrative privileges**: You must have a role that grants privileges to create a space, role, and user. See the {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in] roles.

Reviewer: **Question** What do you think about expanding this just a little, so users don't have to fill in the blanks themselves?

> You must have a role that grants privileges to create a space

Such as the `kibana_user` role

> You must have a role that grants privileges to create a ... role, and user

This is any role which grants the `manage_security` cluster privilege. The only built-in role which satisfies this is the `superuser` role, but users don't need that level of access to complete this tutorial.

The superuser would satisfy both requirements though, so if we're looking for an "easy" getting started experience, then this might be the way to go. However, if we're trying to educate on best practices, then we shouldn't advise using the superuser all over the place.

Author: @gchaps , can you discuss why we avoid superuser / elastic user here?

Reviewer 2: It's because of what @legrego said--we don't want to advise using superuser all over the place.

However, it sounds like its needed here.  I think the text should include the part about the `manage_security` cluster privilege and that the built-in `superuser` role meets this need.

Author: Groovy, it will reduce the head-scratching.  Adding now.

*  **A space**: In this tutorial, use `Dev Mortgage` as the space 
name. See <<spaces-managing, view, create, and delete spaces>> for 

> details on creating a space.

Reviewer: Would something like `<<spaces-managing, spaces management>>` or `<<spaces-managing, managing spaces>>` work here? My initial impression is that this comes across as a little wordy, but I do see that you're matching the linked section heading.

This is more of a question than a suggestion. I'm not sure what the preferred approach is here.

Author: Yes, I think that is a good suggestion.  Changed.

*  **Data**:  You can use <<tutorial-sample-data, sample data>> or 
live data.  In the steps below, Filebeat and Metricbeat data are used.

[float]
==== Steps

With the requirements in mind, here are the steps that you will work 
through in this tutorial:

* Create a role named `mortgage-developer`
* Give the role the ability to monitor the Elastic Stack
* Give the role permission to access the data in the relevant indices
* Give the role permission to create visualizations and dashboards 
* Create the web developer's user account with the proper roles

[float]
==== Create a role

Go to **Management > Roles** 
for an overview of your roles.  This view provides actions
for you to create, edit, and delete roles.

[role="screenshot"]
image::security/images/role-management.png["Role management"]

You can create as many roles as you like. Click *Create role* and 
provide a name. Use `dev-mortgage` because this role is for a developer 
working on the bank's mortgage application.

[float]

> ==== Give the role the ability to monitor the Elastic Stack

Reviewer: Is this step necessary since we also grant this user the `monitoring_user` role in a subsequent step?

`monitoring_user` should be sufficient to use the Stack Monitoring application. Does this user need additional cluster privileges outside what `monitoring_user` provides for their role?

Author: I just tested, removing that cluster priv does not disable monitoring.  I will remove it!

Author: rebuilding now.

In the screenshots, Filebeat and Metricbeat data is used, but you 
should use the index patterns for your indices.

[role="screenshot"]
image::security/images/role-index-privilege.png["Index privilege"]

[float]
==== Give the role permission to create visualizations and dashboards

By default, roles do not give Kibana privileges.  Click **Add space 
privilege** and associate this role with the `Dev Mortgage` space.

To enable users with the `dev-mortgage` role to create visualizations 
and dashboards, click *All* for *Visualize* and *Dashboard*. Also 
assign *All* for *Discover* because it is common for developers 
to create saved searches while designing visualizations.

[role="screenshot"]
image::security/images/role-space-visualization.png["Associate space"]

[float]
==== Create the developer's user account with the proper roles

Go to **Management > Users** and click on **Create user** to create a 
user.  Give the user the `dev-mortgage` role 
and the `monitoring-user` role, which is required for users of **Stack Monitoring**.

[role="screenshot"]
image::security/images/role-new-user.png["Developer user"]

Finally, have the developer log in and access the Dev Mortgage space 

> and create a new visualization.

Reviewer: A minor note - since this user only has access to one space, they won't have to go through the step of accessing the Dev Mortgage space. After logging in to Kibana, they'll automatically enter the Dev Mortgage space, because they have nowhere else to go. It might not be worth explaining all of that here though 🤷‍♂️

Author: Great point, thanks!  I will mention that.

[[space-rbac-tutorial]]

> === Tutorial:  Use Role Based Access Control (RBAC) to customize Kibana Spaces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Tutorial:  Use role-based access control to customize Kibana spaces
```

> Role Based Access Control (RBAC) is used to provide access to data, tools,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With role-based access control (RBAC), you can provide users access to data, tools,
```

> and Kibana Spaces.  In this tutorial you will learn how to configure roles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and Kibana spaces.  In this tutorial, you will learn how to configure roles
```

that provide the right users with the right access to the data, tools, and

> Kibana Spaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kibana spaces.
```

[float]
==== Scenario

Our user is a web developer working on a bank's

> online mortgage service.  The web developer has these 

Reviewer 2: Suggest:

The web developer requires access to the following:

- The data for the service
- Tools to visualize the data and create a dashboard
- Tools to monitor the performance of the system

Author: I think the existing text gives the reader a realistic set of requirements for a user that many of our customers will have experience with.

three requirements:

* Have access to the data for that service 
* Build visualizations and dashboards
* Monitor the performance of the system

You'll provide the web developer with the access and privileges to get the job done.

[float]
==== Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you'll need the following:

> *  **Administrative privileges**: To create a space, role, and a user.  

Reviewer 2: You must have a role that grants privileges to create a space, role, and user.  See the  {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in] roles.

> Log in as a superuser (the `elastic` user is a superuser by default).

Reviewer 2: Remove this sentence and replace with content above.

> *  A **space**: In this tutorial we use `Dev Mortgage` as the space 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  **A space**: In this tutorial, you use space named `Dev Mortgage`.
```

name. See <<spaces-managing, view, create, and delete spaces>> for 
details on creating a space.
*  **Data**:  You can use <<tutorial-sample-data, sample data>> or 

> live data.  In the steps below Filebeat and Metricbeat data are used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
live data.  In the steps below, Filebeat and Metricbeat data are used.
```

[float]

> ==== Steps

Reviewer 2: I'm torn over this section.  I think it slows down the tutorial as it is the third bulleted list that you have to read.

Author: I think it is OK, I read docs like this all the time and I prefer to know what is coming so I can make sure I have all of the info I will need in advance.

With the requirements in mind, here are the steps that you will work 
through in this tutorial:

* Create a role named `mortgage-developer`
* Give the role the ability to monitor the Elastic Stack
* Give the role permission to access the data in the relevant indices
* Give the role permission to create visualizations and dashboards 
* Create the web developer's user account with the proper roles

[float]

> ==== Create a role named `mortgage-developer`

Reviewer 2: Not sure `mortgage-developer` is required in this title.

Author: agreed.

Go to **Management > Roles** 
for an overview of your roles.  This view provides actions
for you to create, edit, and delete roles.

[role="screenshot"]
image::security/images/role-management.png["Role management"]

You can create as many roles as you like. Click *Create role* and 

> provide a name; 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
provide a name.
```

Author: agreed

> in this tutorial use `dev-mortgage` because this role is for a 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, use `dev-mortgage` because this role is for a 
```

Author: agreed

developer working on the bank's mortgage application.

[float]
==== Give the role the ability to monitor the Elastic Stack

Stack monitoring is an important feature for system admins and developers.  

> Both of these groups of people will use stack monitoring to look at 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both of these groups use stack monitoring to look at 
```
```suggestion
Both of these groups of people will use stack monitoring to look at 
```

> performance.  Developers will also use stack monitoring to evaluate and tune ingest pipelines.  For more information on stack monitoring see the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/monitoring-overview.html[monitoring overview].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
performance.  Developers also use stack monitoring to evaluate and tune ingest pipelines.  For more information on stack monitoring see the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/monitoring-overview.html[Monitoring overview].
```

Author: done

Stack monitoring is a cluster level privilege, so in *Cluster 

> privileges* select  **monitor**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
privileges*, select  **monitor**.
```

Author: done

[role="screenshot"]
image::security/images/role-monitor-privilege.png["Monitor privilege"]

[float]
==== Give the role permission to access the data

> Access to data in indices is an index level privilege, so in 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access to data in indices is an index-level privilege, so in 
```

> *Index privileges* add a line or lines for the indices containing the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Index privileges*, add lines for the indices that contain the 
```

Author: done

> data for this role.  There are two privileges needed, `read` and 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
data for this role.  Two privileges needed: `read` and 
```

Author: done

> `view_index_metadata`.  All of the privileges are detailed in the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`view_index_metadata`.  All privileges are detailed in the 
```

Author: ok

> https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/security-privileges.html[security privileges] documentaion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/security-privileges.html[security privileges] documentation.
```

> In the screenshots Filebeat and Metricbeat data is used, but you 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

In the screenshots, Filebeat and Metricbeat data is used, but you 
```

Author: ok

should use the index patterns for your indices.

[role="screenshot"]
image::security/images/role-index-privilege.png["Index privilege"]

[float]
==== Give the role permission to create visualizations and dashboards

By default, roles do not give Kibana privileges.  Click **Add space 
privilege** and associate this role with the `Dev Mortgage` space

> [role="screenshot"]

Reviewer 2: Suggest removing this image as what it shows it also included in the next image.

image::security/images/role-space-associate.png["Associate space"]

> To create new visualizations and dashboards users with 

Reviewer 2: Suggest this change to keep with the tone of the rest of the doc.

To enable users with the `dev-mortgage` role to create visualizations and dashboards, click *All* for *Visualize* and *Dashboard*.  Also assing *All* for *Discover* because it is common for developers to create saved searches while designing visualizations.

Author: done

the `dev-mortgage` role need read and write (All) access to 
**Visualize** and **Dashboard**.  **Discover** has also 
been given read and write access because it is common for developers 
to create saved searches while designing visualizations.

[role="screenshot"]
image::security/images/role-space-visualization.png["Associate space"]

[float]
==== Create the developer's user account with the proper roles

> Create a user with the `dev-mortgage` role and the `monitoring-user` 

Reviewer 2: Should we tell the user where to the UI is for creating a role.

Author: Good catch!

> role which is required for users of Stack Monitoring.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
role. which is required for users of Stack Monitoring.
```

> Finally, have the developer log in and access the Dev Mortgage space 

Reviewer 2: Not sure this line is necessary. Also, the image belongs above this line.
